In this chapter we're going to talk about
For Loops.
The for loop is another way to iterate
over a set of statements in python, and
the
for loop has some advantages over the
while loop
when we're working with data structures,
including even files.
And we'll be demonstrating some of those
advantages over the course of the chapter.
Right now in this lesson, I just wanna
introduce the main
idea of a for loop and show you a simple
example.
First though we're gonna look at the
general form of
a for loop, so let me open up a blank
notepad.
The way a for loop is, is we provide
a target variable usually, in some
collection of data.
Then inside that, we have a set of
statements that we perform.
For example, I'll show you this in notepad
before I introduce it in Python.
We might say for i in 1, 2, 3.
Print i will display all of the numbers,
1, 2, 3, in the list.
Where what happens is something called an
iterator,
an internal pointer, works it's way
through the
list, taking each item out of the list,
and placing it in the target, or the
variable.
A lot of times, that's called the loop
control variable.
So, i gets the value 1, then i gets the
value 2, and then i gets the value 3.
Because this is fairly easy to understand,
let's
go ahead and look at it, in Python itself.
So we're gonna call this program
forintro1.py.
And, we'll just go ahead and create a
simple loop, simple for loop.
We'll stop at 5 to make it easy.
[BLANK_AUDIO]
And then, we'll just say, print i.
So,
let's exit and save.
So, here, we have the result with the
code.
And you see how simple it is to write a
for
loop, let's look at another example, let's
bring this back up,
it's coming up as first example, we can
name our list, and say numbers equals.
Then I'll just copy and paste this in,
like so.
And then say for x in numbers, print x.
It's essentially is the same program,
let's save it,
I'm gonna bring it back up in a moment.
Let's clear the screen,
run the example.
And there would see the very same thing.
Let's look at one more example using the
same code.
Let's say we wanna compute the sum of the
numbers in our list.
All we have to do here is add a summing
variable, take out our print statement.
Sum is equal to sum + x.
Then come right down here and say, print
x.
Let's exit this one last time.
And then when we run our code oh, I see
what I did wrong.
Let's
fix that.
Much better.
X is the the last value, but we don't want
the last value, we wanted the sum.
Let's clear the screen, run it again, and
there we get 15.
The
for loop is used to pull values out of a
data structure, so that
we can perform some task on the items that
are in the data structure.
Most often, when we use a for loop, we're
doing so, so we can retrieve all of the
values.
We're trying to get all the values out of
numbers.
Cuz notice, we don't have any limiting
statement here, we just say
4x in numbers, we're just saying, pull out
each value of numbers.
Successively, stored in a, and then
perform
something with that value, and then
continue
on until, there are no more, elements left
in the, collection, or data structure.
That's all for this first lesson's
introduction to for loops.
We're gonna continue our simple
introduction in
the next lesson, before we move on
to see more specific ways of using
for loops with specific types of data
structures.